Um as Bitcoin becomes more and more popular and
More and more people are using they're already getting the problem now with the blockchain getting congested
- Yes
- easy time so it's been the talk of doing a fork
Yes
If it goes down the path of actually doing a fork, how will they, they roll that out, like, it'll be something that will happen
overnight, or it'll be over twelve months? And
If you own quite a lot of Bitcoin, how long would you have to have before you would have to,
Like, change it over to the new, the new coins?
Alright, so how many of you have heard of this concept of Forks?
Okay, great, so quite a few.
And how many of you are worried?
Oh, a few, okay, good. So generally not too much fear, uncertainty in that particular area
I just released a video on YouTube last week called
fork-ology, a science of forks for newbies
And it's an entire topic
describing what a fork is, how it works, why it happens, and what do you do with it. But the bottom line is this -
If any cryptocurrency forks,
Then, what happens is the end of the blockchain forks right, so
Imagine my arm as the blockchain, my elbow is the genesis block and it builds up
And then it bifurcates at the top.
Now, if you have money here,
that is the common history of both sides
Meaning that both sides recognize that you had money in the past, meaning you have money on both sides.
I'll use another little analogy
Jean-Luc Picard
gets on to the transporter station with five coins in his pocket
As usual a transporter malfunction occurs.
right? Now,
down on the planet Jean-Luc Picard materializes, but up on the Enterprise, Jean-Luc doesn't
dematerialize
Uh-oh, we have 2 Jean-Luc Picards, both of whom claim to be the original.
And one of them wants to call the other one Jean-Luc classic, but
There's a lot of disagreement and they file claims of the patent & Trademark Office because they both claim to be Jean-Luc Picard, the original,
but here's the interesting thing
How many coins do they have in their pocket?
They both have five coins
Now, it may be that those coins have different value on the surface versus on the ship,
but they both have five coins. If one of them spends those coins, then the other one still has their coins and
So they have now two different futures, even though they shared a common past
And so, one of them can go broke by spending all their coins
And the other one still has five coins and nothing's changed. What happens on one side doesn't affect the other
There will be some disagreements, however, if they fix the
malfunction in
the transporter and re-merge the two Jean-luc Picard's
Because the one on the ship, who didn't spend any of his coins, will be rather annoyed that the other one, who spent all of
His coins and gained a few pounds because they were eating cake with them
So when they merge back, you have some nasty problems with the uniform not fitting
But the bottom line is if you have coins before, you have coins after on both Forks, the shared common history is one
You don't have to do anything.
What you have to be very careful is
That your clone doesn't open any new debt
Or, you know, create any situations that might affect your future
Right? So if you have money on both of the forks and you try to move money from one of the forks
There is a risk called a replay attack, where your transaction that you made
Intending to move on one of the forks
it is identical to the same transaction that could be done on the other fork and
Someone copies it over so your money gets spent on both forks.
That is called a replay - it's not double spending because it only got spent once on each fork.